App Sources
===========

GovReady-Q can be configured by an administrator to load compliance apps
from one or more sources, which can be local directories or remote git
repositories.

When using the Hosted Version of GovReady-Q, GovReady PBC is the
administrator. If you are the administrator of an installation of
GovReady-Q at your organization, the information below will help you
configure the App Sources available to your users.

App Sources are configured in the Django admin at the URL ``/admin`` on
your GovReady-Q domain under ``App Sources``:

.. figure:: assets/appsources_list.png
   :alt: App Sources list

   App Sources list

Each App Source points GovReady-Q to a directory or repository of
compliance apps.

.. figure:: assets/appsource_git_https.png
   :alt: Example App Source

   Example App Source

App Source Slug
---------------

The first App Source field is the Slug. The Slug is a short name you
assign to the App Source to distinguish it from other App Sources. The
Slug is used to form URLs in GovReady-Q’s compliance apps catalog, so it
may only contain letters, numbers, dashes, underscores, and other URL
path-safe characters.

App Source Type
---------------

There are four types of App Sources: local directories, remote git
repositories using HTTP which are typically public repositories, remote
git repositories using SSH which typically use SSH deploy keys for
access, and remote GitHub repositories using a GitHub username and
password for access.

Local Directory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Local Directory source type directs GovReady-Q to load compliance
apps from a directory on the same machine GovReady-Q is running on.
(When deploying with Docker, that’s on the container filesystem unless a
path has been mounted to a volume or to the host machine.)

In the ``Path`` field, enter the path to a local directory containing
compliance apps. This path is expected to contain a sub-directory for
each compliance app contained in this source. For instance, if you have
this directory layout:

::

   .
   └── home
       └── user
           └── compliance_apps
               ├── myfirstapp
               │   └── app.yaml
               └── mysecondapp
                   └── app.yaml

then your Path would be ``/home/user/compliance_apps``.

The path can be absolute or relative to the path in which GovReady-Q is
installed.

Git Repository over HTTPS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Git Repository over HTTPS source type is for git repositories, such
as on GitHub or GitLab, that can be cloned using an HTTPS URL. These
repositories are typically public, or in an enterprise environment
public within your organization’s network.

Paste the HTTPS git clone URL — such as
https://github.com/GovReady/govready-apps-dev — into the URL field.
Here’s what that looks like:

.. figure:: assets/appsource_git_https.png
   :alt: App Source for a public git repository

   App Source for a public git repository

The other fields can be left blank.

The ``Path`` field optionally specifies a sub-directory within the
repository in which the compliance apps are stored if they are not
stored in the root of the repository. For instance if the repository has
a directory layout similar to:

::

   .
   └── github.com/organization/repository
       └── apps
           ├── myfirstapp
           │   └── app.yaml
           └── mysecondapp
               └── app.yaml

then set the ``Path`` field to ``apps``.

If the compliance apps are not in the repository’s default branch
(i.e. something other than the typical ``master`` default branch), then
set the ``Branch`` field to the name of the branch to read the
compliance apps from.

You can use HTTPS to access private repositories by placing your
username and password or `personal access
token <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/>`__
into the URL, such as:

::

   https://username:password@github.com/GovReady/govready-apps-dev

Since this requires user credentials, it should be avoided for
production deployments in favor of using Git Repository over SSH (see
below).

Git Repository over SSH
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your git repository is private and accessible using an SSH URL (which
typically looks like git@github.com:organization/repository.git) and an
SSH public/private keypair, such as with GitHub or GitLab deploy keys,
then use the Git Repository over SSH source type.

Create a new SSH key for your GovReady-Q instance to be used as a deploy
key:

::

   ssh-keygen -q -t rsa -b 2048 -N "" -C "_your-repo-name_-deployment-key" -f ./repo_deploy_key

Your GovReady-Q instance will hold the private key half of the newly
generated keypair, and your source code control system will hold the
public key.

Back in the Django admin, set the Source Type to Git Repository over
SSH. Paste the git clone SSH URL into the URL field. Then open the newly
generated file ``repo_deploy_key`` and paste its contents into the SSH
Key field. Here’s what that looks like:

.. figure:: assets/appsource_git_ssh.png
   :alt: App Source for a private git repository

   App Source for a private git repository

The other fields can be left blank. ``Path`` and ``Branch`` can be set
the same as with the Git Repository over HTTPS source type (see above).

Copy the public key in the newly generated file ``repo_deploy_key.pub``
into the deploy keys section of your source code repository. Here is
what that looks like on GitHub:

.. figure:: assets/github_deploy_key_add.png
   :alt: Adding a deploy key to GitHub

   Adding a deploy key to GitHub

Make the key read only by leaving “Allow write access” field unchecked
and click ``Add the key`` to save the key.

GitHub Repository using the GitHub API
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This source type can be used to access private GitHub repositories using
a GitHub username and password or a username and `personal access
token <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/>`__.

Set the ``Repository`` field to the organization name and repository
name, separated by a slash, as in the repository’s URL following
``github.com/``. In ``Other Parameters``, paste a small YAML-formatted
document holding a GitHub username and password or username and personal
access token, formatted as follows:

::

   auth:
     user: 'myusername'
     pw: 'mypassword'

The other fields can be left blank. ``Branch`` can be set the same as
with the Git Repository over HTTPS source type (see above).

Since this source type requires user credentials, it should be avoided
for production deployments in favor of using Git Repository over SSH.

Controlling access to apps
--------------------------

Controlling which organizations in a Q deployment can access which apps
is done via the App Sources table.

The “Available to all” field of App Source, which is on by default,
gives all users of all organizations the ability to start an app
provided by the App Source.

If the “Available to all” field is unchecked, then only users within
white-listed organizations can start apps provided by the App Source.
The white-list is a multi-select box on the App Source page.

Removing access to a App Source does not affect any apps that have
already been started by a user.

App executable content
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Apps can contain executable content (some of which is disabled by
default):

-  JavaScript executed by the client browser contained within page HTML,
   via module template content.

-  JavaScript executed by the client browser served as a static asset
   and referenced by a ``<script>`` tag.

Both sources of Javascript execute within the context of pages on the
domain that the Q site itself runs on, which means the scripts have
access to the page DOM, cookies, localStorage, etc. These scripts must
only be enabled if they are trusted for these environments.

Javascript static assets (**but not Javascript in module templates** -
this is a TODO) are therefore disabled by default. (Javascript static
assets are disabled by serving them with an incorrect MIME type.)

To enable these scripts, the ``Trust assets`` flag must be true on the
App Source that provides the app. This flag must only be true if any
Apps provided by the App Source, including Apps already loaded into Q,
are trusted to have executable content that may have as much client or
server-side access as the Q instance does itself.
