.. Copyright (C) 2020 GovReady PBC

.. _advanced_container_configuration:

Advanced Container Configuration Options
========================================

Deploying GovReady-Q's advanced configuration options supports a variety of architectures
for enterprise deployments.

The docker_container_run.sh script
----------------------------------

For more complex setups, using our run script instead will be easier:

::

   wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GovReady/govready-q/master/deployment/docker/docker_container_run.sh
   chmod +x docker_container_run.sh
   ./docker_container_run.sh

Advanced container options can be set with command-line arguments to our
container run script:

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh ...GovReady-Q arguments... -- ...Docker arguments...

Changing the hostname and port
------------------------------

The public address (as users see it)
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

The container will run at ``localhost:8000`` by default, it will only be
accessible from the host machine, and because of HTTP Host header
checking you must visit GovReady-Q using the same hostname it is
configured to run at (so, with default settings, visiting ``127.0.0.1``
instead of ``localhost`` will result in an error).

You may change the hostname and port of the GovReady-Q server using:

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh --address q.mydomain.com:80

If the Docker container is behind a proxy, then ``--address`` specifies
the public address that end-users will use to access GovReady-Q. This
may differ from the address and port that the container is accessed at
on your organization’s network, which is set using ``--bind``.

Add ``--https`` if end users will access GovReady-Q with https: URLs.
This must be done through a proxy that accepts HTTPS connections and
passes the requests using HTTP to the Docker container. See the
``HTTPS`` environment variable, below.

The address that the container is bound to
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Use ``--bind IP:PORT`` to control how the listening socket is created on
the host machine. The default value of ``--bind`` is ``127.0.0.1`` and
the port from ``--address``, or ``127.0.0.1:8000`` if ``--address``
isn’t given. If the host machine is behind a proxy, use ``--bind`` to
control the network interface and port that Docker will forward to the
GovReady-Q container.

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh --bind 10.0.0.5:6543

Persistent database
-------------------

In a production environment it is important to have GovReady-Q connect
to a persistent database instead of the database stored inside the
container, which will be destroyed when the container is destroyed.
There are two methods for connecting to a persistent database.

Sqlite file
^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use a Sqlite file stored on the host machine:

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh --sqlitedb /path/to/govready-q-database.sqlite

You must specify an absolute path. The path is mounted using a Docker
bind mount into the container filesystem.

The file must be readable and writable by the container process, which
is running as user 1000/group 1000. Although the container is running as
a user isolated from the host environment, filesystem permissions for
mounted files are based on comparing the raw user/group IDs of the
file’s owner/group on the host to the raw user/group ID of the process
running in the container. Consider granting user 1000 read/write
permission to the database using ACLs:

::

   setfacl -m u:1000:rw /path/to/govready-q-database.sqlite

Of course, do not do this if the host machine has a user 1000 that you
do not trust.

Remote database
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can also connect to a database running on a remote system accessible
to the Docker container.

For instance, you might run a second Docker container holding a Postgres
server.

::

   DBPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
   docker container run --name govready-q-db -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=$DBPASSWORD -d postgres
   DBHOST=$(docker container inspect govready-q-db | jq -r .[0].NetworkSettings.IPAddress)
   DBUSER=postgres
   DBDATABASE=postgres

(This example uses ``jq``, a JSON parsing tool, to extract the IP
address of the database container. You can install ``jq`` or just set
``DBHOST`` manually by looking for the IP address in
``docker container inspect govready-q-db``.)

Start the GovReady-Q container with the argument:

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh --dburl postgres://$DBUSER:$DBPASSWORD@$DBHOST/$DBDATABASE

where ``$DBHOST`` is the hostname of the database server,
``$DBDATABASE`` is the name of the database, and ``$DBUSER`` and
``$DBPASSWORD`` are the credentials for the database.

You can also use a MySQL or MariaDB server using the syntax
``mysql://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/NAME``.

Configuring email
-----------------

GovReady-Q sends outbound emails for notifications about invitations and
discussions. It also receives inbound emails — replies to discussion
notifications can be used to post discussion comments by email.

The default Govready-Q instance cannot send email or receive comment
replies until it is configured to use a transactional mail provider like
Mailgun.

To configure outbound email, use:

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh --email-host smtp.company.org --email-port 587 --email-user ... --email-pw ... --email-domain q.company.org

``--email-domain`` sets the hostname used in the email address of
outbound email. The other arguments set the SMTP relay server details.

Some of GovReady-Q’s outbound emails can be replied to. When a user
replies to a notification of a discussion comment, the reply’s body is
post as a new comment on the discussion. Currently we only support an
incoming notification hook from Mailgun, and it is not yet configurable
for the docker deployment. TODO

Container management and other options
--------------------------------------

Other options that can be passed on the command-line are:

Use ``--name NAME`` to specify an alternate name for the container. The
default is ``govready-q``.

Use ``--relaunch`` to remove an existing container of the same name
before launching the new one, if an existing container of the same name
exists. This simply runs ``docker container rm -f NAME``.

Add ``--debug`` to start GovReady-Q in DEBUG mode, which enables nicer
error messages. Do not use in production.

You can additionally pass parameters to the ``docker container run``
command by separating the `Docker
parameters <https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/>`__ from the
GovReady-Q parameters with ``--``, such as:

::

   ./docker_container_run.sh --address q.mydomain.com:80 -- -e VAR=VALUE

Adding and developing compliance apps
-------------------------------------

If you are using the Docker image to develop your own compliance apps,
then you will need to bind-mount a directory on your (host) system as a
directory within the container so that the container can see your app
YAML files. To do so, start the container with the additional
command-line argument:

::

   --appsdevdir /path/to/apps

The directory may be empty but it must exist, and you must specify it as
an absolute path (due to a Docker limitation).

The directory and its contents must also be readable — and writable, if
you intend to use GovReady-Q’s authoring tools — by the container
process. The container process is running as user 1000/group 1000.
Although the container is running as a user isolated from the host
environment, filesystem permissions for mounted files are based on
comparing the raw user/group IDs of the file’s owner/group on the host
to the raw user/group ID of the process running in the container.
Consider granting user 1000 read/write permission to the files, plus
execute (i.e. browse) permission to the directories, in the mounted path
using ACLs:

::

   setfacl -R -m u:1000:rwX /path/to/apps

Of course, do not do this if the host machine has a user 1000 that you
do not trust.

If the directory is not empty, it should have subdirectories for each of
your apps. For instance, you would have a YAML file at
``/path/to/apps/my_app/app.yaml``.

To create your first app, you can run

::

   docker container exec -it govready-q python3.6 manage.py compliance_app host your_new_app_name

Replace ``your_new_app_name`` with an app identifier, which may contain
letters, numbers, dashes, and underscores. ``host`` is always just
``host`` — don’t change that.

If your new app does not appear in the compliance apps catalog, you may
need to force the app catalog cache to be cleared by restarting the
container:

::

   docker container restart govready-q

Logs for Debugging
------------------

The container’s console shows the output of container’s start-up
commands including database migrations and process startup. The
container’s console log can be accessed with

::

   docker container logs govready-q

GovReady-Q application logs can be found in ``/var/log`` within the
container to track status and assist with debugging. These files contain
access logs and other program output.

-  ``/var/log/application-stderr.log`` - GovReady-Q application standard
   error
-  ``/var/log/application-stdout.log`` - GovReady-Q application standard
   out
-  ``/var/log/notificationemails-stderr.log`` - GovReady-Q email
   notifications standard error
-  ``/var/log/notificationemails-stdout.log`` - GovReady-Q email
   notifications standard error
-  ``/var/log/supervisord.log`` - Supervisor daemon

**Debugging “Internal Server Error” Messages**

A special management command can be used to see the application log
files to debug unhandled “Internal Server Error” (HTTP code 500)
messages displayed in the browser to end users

::

   docker container exec govready-q tail_logs
   # Replace "govready-q" with name of your container or use container id

``tail_logs`` takes the same arguments as Unix ``tail``. For instance,
add ``-n 1000`` to see the most recent 1,000 log lines, or add ``-f`` to
continue to output the logs as the log files grow.

::

   # most recent 200 lines of logs
   docker container exec govready-q tail_logs -n 200

   # real-time display of logs
   docker container exec govready-q tail_logs -f

The log files can also be accessed by mounting ``/var/log`` with a
Docker bind-mount or as a volume (and that’s the only way to see the
logs if ``docker container exec`` cannot be used in your environment).

Production deployment of the Docker container
---------------------------------------------

The GovReady-Q container runs several processes, including an
HTTP/application server and a background process for sending
notification emails.

Secure deployments
------------------

The container’s processes run exclusively as a non-root user with UID
1000 and GID 1000.

The container may be run with a read-only root filesystem (Docker’s
``--read-only`` argument) so long as ``/run``, ``/tmp``, and
``/var/log`` are writable. When the ``--dburl`` argument is given to our
``docker_container_run.sh`` script, a read-only filesystem is activated
using:

::

   --read-only --tmpfs /run --tmpfs /tmp --tmpfs /var/log

The three directories can be made writable either by being mounted as
tmpfs temporary filesystems, as above, or using a bind mount or a Docker
volume. In production environments where the container is launched
without our script, it is recommended to use tempfs for ``/run`` and
``/tmp`` and to mount ``/var/log`` to a volume.

Other management commands
-------------------------

See the `uWSGI <http://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/>`__ application server
JSON process stats:

::

   docker container exec govready-q uwsgi_stats

Updating to a new release of GovReady-Q
---------------------------------------

Periodically there will be a new release of GovReady-Q as an new image
on the Docker Hub. Updating is easy by re-running the same commands
again.

1) There may be an update to ``docker_container_run.sh``. Since this
   script is not a part of the Docker image, you will need to get it
   again from this GitHub repository.

2) You should be using a persistent database as described above. When
   using a persistent database, it is safe to destroy the ``govready-q``
   Docker container and start a new one to deploy an update.

3) Use the same arguments to ``docker_container_run.sh`` as when you
   started the container the last time, but add ``--relaunch`` to kill
   the previous container — you cannot have two containers with the same
   name or two containers listening on the same port. (You can change
   the name and port, as described above, if you would like to keep the
   old container running.)

4) When the new container starts, database migrations will be applied,
   if applicable.

For example:

::

   # Update docker_container_run.sh, replacing the old script (with -O).
   wget -O docker_container_run.sh \
       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GovReady/govready-q/master/deployment/docker/docker_container_run.sh
   chmod +x docker_container_run.sh

   # Remove old container and launch updated container.
   ./docker_container_run.sh --relaunch [your same command-line arguments]

Environment variables for launching the container without our run script
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following environment variables are used to configure the container
when launching GovReady-Q using ``docker run`` or a container service
(i.e., not when using our ``docker_container_run.sh`` helper script).

``HOST`` - The domain name that GovReady-Q will be accessible at by end
users. (Default: ``localhost``)

``PORT`` - The port that GovReady-Q will be accessed at by end users,
typically either 80 (no HTTPS) or 443 (HTTPS). (Default: ``8080``)

``HTTPS`` - Set to ``true`` if GovReady-Q will be accessed by end users
at an https: address. This must be done through a proxy that accepts
HTTPS connections and passes the requests using HTTP to the Docker
container. The proxy must set the ``X-Forwarded-Proto: https`` header.
It is also permissible for the proxy to forward HTTP requests, and those
requests will be automatically redirected to the https: URL. (Default:
``false``)

``DEBUG`` - Set to ``true`` to run in Django debug mode. (Default:
``false``)

``DBURL`` - Set to a database connection string as described in
https://github.com/kennethreitz/dj-database-url. We recommend using
PostgreSQL `using a TLS server
certificate <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/libpq-ssl.html>`__,
e.g. ``postgresql://user:password@dbhost/govready_q?sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=/path/to/pgsql.crt``
(although you’ll have to figure out how to get the server certificate
accessible via the container filesystem). (Default: Not set, which means
using a Sqlite database stored in the container at
``/usr/src/app/local/database.sqlite``, which will be ephemeral if the
path is not mounted to the host or a Docker volume.)

``EMAIL_HOST``, ``EMAIL_PORT``, ``EMAIL_USER``, ``EMAIL_PW``, and
``EMAIL_DOMAIN`` - For enabling outbound email. The host, port,
username, and password settings specify a TLS-enabled SMTP server.
``EMAIL_DOMAIN`` is the domain name to use in outbound mail. (Default:
Not set and outbound emails are dumped to logs for debugging.) To test
the email configuration from the command-line, you can run
``docker container exec -it govready-q python3.6 manage.py sendtestemail you@example.com``.
If email is configured, you should not see any output and you should get
a test email.

``FIRST_RUN`` - If set to ``1``, an administrator user will be created
when the container launches and a randomly generated password will be
given to the user and printed on the console, which will be visible in
the container’s logs. An organization named ``main`` will also be
created.

``PROCESSES`` - The number of concurrent requests that can be handled by
the container. (Default: 4)

``SECRET_KEY`` - The `Django
SECRET_KEY <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/ref/settings/#secret-key>`__
for session management. (Try `this
tool <https://www.miniwebtool.com/django-secret-key-generator/>`__ to
generate one.)

``ADMINS`` - The `Django
ADMINS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/ref/settings/#admins>`__
setting, passed as raw JSON. Example:
``[["Admin Name 1", "admin1@example.com"], ["Admin Name 2", "admin2@example.com"]]``.
(Default: Empty list, i.e. ``[]``.)

``SYSLOG`` - The host and port of a syslog-compatible log message sink.
(Default: None.)

``MAILGUN_API_KEY`` - An API key for Mailgun which is used to validate
incoming webhook requests from Mailgun when an incoming email is
received, when Mailgun is configured to handle incoming mail. (Default:
None)

``BRANDING`` (downstream packaging only): You may override the templates
and stylesheets that are used for GovReady-Q’s branding by setting this
environment variable to the name of an installed Django app Python
module (i.e. created using ``manage.py startapp``) that holds templates
and static files. No such app is provided in the GovReady-Q published
Docker image, so this variable can only be used by downstream image
maintainers. See `Applying Custom Organization
Branding <CustomBranding.html>`__.

``PROXY_AUTHENTICATION_USER_HEADER`` and
``PROXY_AUTHENTICATION_EMAIL_HEADER``: GovReady-Q can be deployed behind
a reverse proxy that authenticates users and passes the authenticated
user’s username and email address in HTTP headers. These environment
variables correspond to the settings documented in `Enterprise
Login <Environment.html#proxy-authentication-server>`__.

Running tests
-------------

GovReady-Q’s unit tests can be run within the Docker container. After
building the image:

::

   docker container run --rm -it govready/govready-q:latest python3.6 manage.py test

Or once a Docker container running GovReady-Q is started (and named
``govready-q``), use ``exec`` to begin a shell within the container, and
then launch the unit tests:

::

   docker container exec -it govready-q bash
   python3.6 manage.py test guidedmodules

The functional tests run a headless Chromium web browser session. We
welcome assistance figuring out how to get this to work in our Docker
container. Chromium’s process isolation capabilities seem to require
special system privileges
(i.e. ``docker run --privileged --cap-add SYS_ADMIN``) or Chromium
command-line flags (``--no-sandbox --disable-gpu``).

::

   yum install -y chromium chromedriver
   python3.6 manage.py test
   ...
   selenium.common.exceptions.WebDriverException: Message: unknown error: Chrome failed to start: exited abnormally

Populating sample data for manual testing and verification
----------------------------------------------------------

If you wish to add sample data for testing purposes to your GovReady-Q
image, run the following command (after ``first_run`` has completed):

::

   docker container exec -it govready-q add_data --non-interactive

This will run a quickstart command to generate data in your GovReady-Q
instance, as described in more detail in the
`Testing <Test.html#populating-sample-data-for-manual-testing-and-verification>`__
section of this documentation.


